## Prediction of illness for hospitalized people (Final grade: 6/6)

### Challenge
For this task the dataset consisted of data collected during the permanence of about 17'000 patients in hospital and was made of several features corresponding to measured standard vital signs such as body temperature, insuline levels, blood sugar level etc. These measures led doctors to prescribe further exams, represented by boolean variables, while other vital signs, represented by real valued variables, were measured as well (oxygen saturation, blood pressure and heartrate). Patients standard vital signs and resulting exams were recorded for 12h + 12h (one day in total). The task consisted in training a neural network with the data of the first 12h in order to predict which exams will be prescribed by doctors on the following 12h based, together with oxygen saturation, blood pressure and heartrate, based on the standard vital signs only.

## Solution
As the task consisted in a mixture of a regression and a classification problem, we trained ElasticNet and MLPRegressor to forecast oxygen saturation, blood pressure and heartrate, and MLPClassifier to predict which exams will be predicted by doctors in the second 12h given. The main difficulties of this task were represented by **missing data** (patients' vital values are not recorded continuosly while other values are not recorded at all), **importance sampling** (the proportion of patients who are prescripted with certain exams can vary greatly), **feature engineering** (some very relevant quantities are missing in the dataset, for example the temperature is given, but its difference over the 12h, which is cleary relevant to the evolution of the patient's conditions of the next 12h, is not).

Along with technical skills, I learned together with my group how to approach complicated problems as we had to **visualize data** , **test different models** such as linear regression and neural nets, make extensive use of **cross-validation**, perform **feature engineering** and **data-preprocessing** to solve it. We tackled this task exploiting many techniques, **PCA**, **up-sampling**, **down-samlping**, some of which turned out to be unsuitable for the solution, but trying them out has been useful nonetheless.
